I think it's been 32 years of walking with the Lord.
I would say, most of those years, I know how to pray or I love to pray.
But it was truly, I think, a religious function.
I'd pray in the morning.
I'd pray in the evening.
I'd pray for meals.
I would pray with my kids.
I would pray with my wife.
I would pray at stoplights.
And I would fast during the 21 days of fast that we typically do.
And all those things were great.
But it just wasn't meeting me.
I don't think I was listening.
I think it was speaking in prayer.
And so I had to really break apart a lot of my routine and a lot of my construction of my own head about what prayer means and what it's supposed to look like and reconstruct into this relational aspect of what does it mean to wrestle with God in prayer?
What does it mean to listen to Him in prayer?
What does it mean to wait for Him in prayer?
It turned into, I just want to spend time with Him.
I'm going to go on a walk with Him.
I'm going to journey with Him.
I'm going to
bring this out to him and have a conversation, which exited all my old language and entered new language.
And what I'm learning, I realize I have so much forward to go.
It's not like I attained or achieved it.
It's like I'm just crossing elements of prayer that I never understood.
My younger brother passed away in 1993.
He was my favorite person in the whole world.
He was seven years younger than me.
and I did not know what to do with myself.
I just didn't, I tried to pray, I tried to read God's word and it was just really difficult.
I asked God to help me, to help me to get through it.
I didn't know what to do.
I think it's Psalm 27 at the end of it.
It says, I would have despaired had I not believed I would see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living.
That's how I got through that because I just kept going after him and going after him.
I had no place else to go but to him.
As you grow in prayer, you will understand that the decision that the Lord has for you is the best.
Although it emotionally affects us, I always try to understand that spiritually it is the best for me.
The Lord always has an answer for us.
In reality, He always answers us.
With a silence, He answers us.
Over the course of my life, through prayer, as I've asked God for different things, he's always answered in
very different ways, ways that I just wouldn't expect.
And if I wasn't open enough to receive the way that he was talking to me, then I would have never known it was him.
And I think that's the goal for my life, at least.
I want to be open to however God is going to speak, whether it's through something miraculous and super powerful and amazing, or if it's through a simple conversation.
You know, I think the Lord can do so much in any of those circumstances.
And I want to be open and willing.
So I think that's what's changed.
I'm just more open to however God wants to do what he wants to do.
And very little takes me by surprise now.
I'm just like, oh man, that was you.
That's awesome.
And it's cool.
It's an adventure.
And that's kind of fun.
I like that.
And so this is our prayer for our church, that we would be a house of prayer.
that we would practice praying, draw close to God in relationships.
And that none of us would acknowledge that we are prayer experts, but we're prayer enthusiasts.
We're learning how to pray as we draw close to God.
And so let's take a moment before we read God's word and let's pray.
Father in heaven, we are here and we are ready and we are listening.
So speak to us through your word.
You invited us to pray.
that your kingdom come and your will would be done on earth as it is in heaven.
We acknowledge right now there's so many things happening on this earth in this nation that are difficult, that are troubling.
We think about what's happening in Minnesota right now and the conflict and the disruption and the lack of peace in God.
We pray your kingdom come, you will be done there as it is in heaven.
We also acknowledge these places in the world where there's chaos and confusion and just questions in God, we pray.
Your kingdom come, you will be done there as it is in heaven.
And we pray for us inside of us.
Well, there's confusion and sometimes a lack of peace or joy or wisdom.
So you're, we'll be done in us as it is in heaven.
And so today as we learn how to yield, teach us to pray in this way.
We pray this in Christ's name.
Amen.
So if this is your first weekend here in a long time, we have been in a series on prayer and we've been using this prayer acronym, P-R-A-Y.
That as we begin to pray, the first thing we need to do is to pause, to stop.
And Jesus modeled this so many times, sneaking out early in the morning or late at night and getting away from the crowd and the noise and just being quiet and being still.
And so we've been practicing waking up early.
late at night under the stars, stopping at stop lights and not looking at our phone but stopping and praying.
This idea of pausing.
We've also been practicing, reflecting and rejoicing.
Asking the question, we pray, who am I talking to?
And who am I to him?
And how do I bring my real self, what I really think and feel to the real God?
And then watch him work as I thank him for who he is.
And then last weekend we talked about asking.
that we're supposed to pray about everything.
We're supposed to pray about our daily bread, the way God provides for us.
We're invited to pray to forgive people who hurt us.
We're invited to pray when we go through temptations.
Jesus taught us to pray this way very specifically and with confidence and to keep on asking and keep on seeking and keep on knocking.
And today we're gonna learn how to yield in prayer.
That idea of yielding is in the Lord's prayer.
Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in
Now this is of those four parts of prayer, the most difficult part of prayer, yielding.
Because that means when you yield in prayer, you don't get what you want.
So sometimes we think like, well, if he says I ask and I'll get, then why don't I get the answers to all my prayers?
Why doesn't he answer every prayer?
And it's because God is not interested in being a vending machine for you or a genie in a bottle that gives you three wishes.
He's interested in a relationship and he knows better than you and he knows when you ask according to his will, there's something good that happens.
So John, one of Jesus' disciples, he would write this toward the end of his life.
This is the confidence we have in approaching God.
That if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us.
And if we know,
that he hears us, whatever we ask, we know that we have what we have asked for.
And so how can we be the people that learn to pray, God, your will, helping to pray, your will be shaped by your will, knowing that sometimes I'll get a yes and sometimes I'll get a no and sometimes I'll get a not now.
And how do I wrestle with that?
And maybe your response is, well, that doesn't seem right or fair.
I mean, what does God know what it's like to live on this earth and get a no in prayer?
or to get a knot now in prayer when you really need something.
Well, I want you to know that the ultimate prayer of yielding comes from Jesus himself.
When he asked God at the most important moment for his life for God to come through for him, and God does not answer the prayer that Jesus in his humanity is praying for and looking for.
Jesus knows the pain and the disappointment and the difficulty of un-
answered prayer.
Here's the scene.
He knows he's come on a mission from heaven to earth to die in our place.
And he knows the night before his arrest and betrayal and crucifixion and suffering and taking on the sins of the whole world.
This is going to be the most difficult moment of his life.
And so he, he gathers with his disciples and specifically takes Peter, James and John to this part of the garden of Gethsemane where he's always been praying.
And here's
What happens?
He says to them, my soul is overwhelmed with sorrow to the point of death.
Stay here and keep watch with me.
And going a little further, he fell on his face to the ground and prayed, my father, if it is possible, may this cup be taken from me.
And you hear the overwhelmed kind of part of his humanity who knows what's coming and knows the suffering that's coming.
And so he says, my father and my God,
acknowledging who God is.
You can do anything.
All things are possible for you.
And so here is my request.
Let this cup pass.
And well, what happens next?
He prays the ultimate prayer of yielding.
He knows what's coming.
He's asking God to find another way, but look at the end of his prayer.
Yet not as I will, but
as you will.
This is the hardest part of any prayer, to know what you need and what you feel and what you want from God, to ask him specifically and boldly, you are a father, you can do whatever you want and here's what I'm asking for, but not my will, but your will be done.
And just to get a little insight into how difficult this moment in Jesus' life was,
Well, we know from some of the Gospels as he prayed, sweat came from his brow and it was like blood.
The author of Hebrews describes this moment in Jesus' life this way.
During the days of Jesus' life on earth, he offered up prayers and petitions with fervent cries and tears to the one who could save him from death.
And he was heard because of his reverent submission.
Son, though he was, he learned obedience from what he suffered.
And once made perfect, he became the source of eternal salvation for all who obey him.
Do you see that?
Jesus is crying to God in tears and with fervent cries to the one who could save him from death.
And it says, and he was heard.
God heard the prayer of his son.
He answered him in not the way that Jesus asked, but because of Jesus'
reverence, submission, and obedience.
God, not my will, but your will be done.
We have all experienced the eternal salvation that comes from a yielding prayer.
Aren't you grateful that Jesus prayed that prayer?
Because if he didn't, we would all be in big trouble.
Jesus demonstrates it was for the joy set before him that he took this step and obeyed the father and submitted his will to his father's will in this moment where his humanity was crying, I don't want to do this.
And so we want to learn the joy of yielding and what obedience will lead to, not just in Jesus' life, but in our life.
I know that every time Jesus asks you to do something, He's already gone first.
He's already been through it.
He is the God who understands what it's like to be in skin and what it's like to pray and not get the answer that you're looking for in the moment.
And so we're gonna talk about just two ways we can practice yielding in prayer, the practice of yielding.
And here's the first one.
God, control.
It's the idea of surrender.
It's the idea of praying with palms up by God.
I have nothing in my hands.
I have nothing to offer you.
My life belongs to you.
And so I'm gonna surrender control.
I'm gonna offer you control.
I'm gonna ask that you would determine the outcome, not my will, but your will be done.
We see this all through the scripture as followers of Jesus offered up control of their lives to him.
They had ideas of what they want.
They had plans of what they want, but God was able to redirect them because they prayed prayers of yielding.
I'll give you an example.
Paul, the apostle, he is in a place called Antioch.
He's with one of his best friends, Barnabas, and they're experiencing this massive revival where Greek Christians and Jewish Christians and people from all
Different nations and languages and cultures are coming together and this church is blowing up and it's an amazing time of ministry.
The place where people were first called Christians was at this church.
At Paul and Barnabas, they go to a prayer and worship service and watch what happens in this service.
Acts chapter 13.
While they were worshiping the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said, set apart for me Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them.
So after they fasted and prayed, they placed their hands on them and sent them off.
Have you ever had a plan for your life, a vision for your life perfectly constructed like, okay, I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna go to college, I'm gonna get this job and I'm gonna start this business, I'm gonna build this family, I'm gonna do this thing.
And how many times in your life has that plan changed because of circumstances or the work of God or redirection?
I think all of us have experienced some form of like, oh, that's not,
That's not what I had planned.
I have no idea what Paul had planned or Barnabas had planned, but they went to church that day and they began to pray and they began to fast.
And the spirit of God said, Hey, I'm going to take these two people who are doing really well in this space and we're going to send them to all these places that don't know the gospel.
And that had to be a very uncomfortable moment, but look at what Paul and Barnabas did.
They, they agreed with God's spirit.
It's not my life.
It's your life.
Your will be done.
So if you ask us to go, we will go.
We see in Acts chapter 16 on Paul's second chip, he's determined to go to the same place as he went on his first chip.
And so he's determined to go, but God's spirit stops him.
And he hears or sees a vision of advancing and come over to Macedonian help us.
And so his plan gets completely redirected.
And his response is at once Paul obeyed, at once Paul yielded and went the new direction that God had for his life.
So when you think about,
your plans for your life and maybe your prayer, God, I want to be married, I want to have kids, I want to get this job, I want to be admired, I want to be respected, I want to feel the fulfillment of my calling, but somehow it's not happening.
One of the most powerful prayers you can pray, God, you know what I want, I've asked you a thousand times, I've asked you specifically and boldly and repeatedly, but here's what I want to say, at the end of all my prayers, not my will, but your will be done.
And not just with the plans we have for our life, but with the issues, the difficulties, the suffering we go through in life.
Because Paul, there's a moment in Paul's life where he is particularly going through a difficult thing in his life.
He calls it a thorn in his flesh.
Something is going on in him that the Bible doesn't describe.
And watch Paul pray boldly and specifically and repeatedly that God would take it away.
It's 2 Corinthians 12, 8.
It says, God, three times I pleaded with the Lord.
to take it away from me.
But he said to me, my grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness.
Paul, the apostle Paul, the man who had visions of heaven, the man who spoke with the tongues of angels, the man who helped plant all these churches.
He's praying for a simple thing.
God, there's this thing in me, physically, emotionally and spiritually.
We don't exactly know this thing in me.
And it's just, I just ask you please, I'm begging you.
take it away, heal me, change it, the circumstances, what's happening in my body, what's happening in my mind, I'm not really sure what it is, but God just hear my prayer and he asked and God says no and he asked again and God says no and he asked a third time and God says no and then God says I'm not gonna answer the prayer as you want me to but I want you to know something.
As you yield in prayer, my grace is sufficient for you and my strength will be revealed in this weakness in your life.
And Paul says, if that's the case, then I'm going to rejoice in my weakness.
I'm going to celebrate my weakness because when I am weak, then I am strong.
That is a yielding prayer.
And this is again, the most difficult prayer that we as people will ever pray because
By yielding, we're not getting what we want, what we desire, what we think is best, and we're saying, God, we're gonna trust you with what is best, and that is not easy.
It's a simple prayer that we see through the Bible.
We see it in Isaiah, we see it in Jeremiah, we see it in Romans.
God, you are the potter, and I am the clay.
What does that imply?
You're the one who's forming and shaping me and your plan is different than my plan.
And every time you shape or reshape me, it hurts and I want the pain to stop, but ultimately I want to acknowledge that I am in your hands.
And so here's a verse how God describes what he's doing in your life and my life in his own hands.
Like clay in the hand of a potter, so are you in my hand.
And that suffering, that redirection for the thing that you really want, it actually produces something in you.
Romans chapter five, verses three to five, Paul says, our suffering produces perseverance.
That perseverance produces character.
That character produces hope that when we yield in prayer, we don't always give what we want.
It provides something to force.
It makes us a different kind of person.
And so we want to be the people of God who don't always get our way in prayer.
but always yield and say, God, you're in control and I'm not.
You are the Potter and I am the clay.
And so let's think about the power of a yielding prayer.
I want to share with you maybe one of the most well-known yielding prayers that we see outside of the Bible.
It's called the serenity prayer.
And maybe you've heard the Serenity Prayer because you've been in recovery or you have a friend who's been in recovery, but the Serenity Prayer was not written for alcoholics or people who struggle with drug addiction.
It was written for people who are human.
If you're human, raise your hand.
Reinhold Niebuhr was the man who wrote this prayer.
And I'm gonna read the first part of the prayer, which is very familiar, but then the second part of the prayer is almost unfamiliar to most people.
And I want you to listen to the words and let's think deeply about what does it mean to live a life that is yielded or surrendered to God?
Here goes the serenity prayer.
God, grant me the serenity to accept the things I cannot change.
The courage to change the things I can, and wisdom to know the difference.
What is this prayer?
God, grant me the serenity to accept the things I cannot change.
Can you change your husband or your wife?
Can you change your kids?
Can you change the people at your job?
Can you change what's happened in the world?
No.
Everyone say, I am not in control.
Now say it like you mean it.
I am not in control.
I don't control the outcome.
He controls the outcome.
He is God and I am not.
And I need to surrender that.
And again,
This is not an easy or passive thing to do.
There has to be a process of wrestling.
I am not in control of the outcome of who my son or daughter becomes.
I am not in control of the outcome of what my business becomes.
I'm not in control of the outcome of what happens in this relationship or in this thing.
I'm only barely in control of what happens in me.
And so Lord, give me the courage
to do the things that you've called me to do, give me the courage to know what my part is, and God, give me the wisdom to know the difference of what I let go of, what I surrender to you, and what I step into in courage and faith.
And listen, this is the type of prayer you can pray your entire life and never get it.
It's a process, a continual process of yielding in prayer.
And then the prayer goes on, living one day at a time.
and join one moment at a time, accepting hardships as the pathway to peace, taking as he did the sinful world as it is, and not as I would have it, trusting that he will make all things right if I surrender to his will, so that I may be reasonably happy in this life, and supremely happy with him forever and ever in the next.
This is a prayer of yielding, a prayer of surrender.
And this is the great paradox of Jesus teaching.
As long as you need your life to go a certain way, for you to be at peace and to be happy, you will never be at peace and be happy.
Think with me for a second.
This is Jesus teaching.
If you need your life to go a certain way, I need to get married.
I need to have, I need to be healthy.
I need to prosper.
I need to have a God you come through in these areas.
And for me to experience hope and peace, you got to do all this for me God.
You'll never be happy.
You'll never be full of peace.
You'll always have that sense of low grade anxiety.
Okay, it's not enough in a way.
I got to protect this and kind of what about, and Jesus said, listen,
Don't worry about tomorrow.
Everybody has enough trouble at some.
Just look at the birds of the air.
Look at the flowers of the field.
God closed the flowers.
He feeds the birds.
And how much more does He love and care for you than flowers and birds?
So do not worry.
You are not in control.
And that's a very good thing.
And this prayer of yielding, it keeps you from a joyless life.
It keeps you from
I'll be happy and at peace when all these things get fixed, which means you'll never be happy and at peace.
But this beautiful prayer of surrender going, God, I just, I want to yield my life to you.
And so we're going to take a moment and we're just going to pray a yielding prayer.
This is going to be between you and God at your seat.
We're going to practice a yielding prayer.
So I'm going to ask you to close your eyes and I'm just going to lead you through a few questions.
This is just a conversation between you and God.
Is there an area of my life, people in my life, a situation in my life that I am trying to control?
Is there something I'm trying to make happen, something I'm trying to fix, something I'm trying to orchestrate that's just led me to be frustrated and despairing?
Maybe you could fill in this blank.
To be happy and at peace, I need to be married.
To be happy and at peace, I need to have kids.
I need to be healthy.
I need to have money in the bank.
I need to own my own business.
I need to be successful.
Or respected.
Or admired.
Just take a moment to say, God, I surrender the outcome.
I give you control.
You are the potter and I am the clay.
Not my will, but your will be done.
Amen.
This is a yielding prayer.
It's the hardest part of prayer.
And not only is offering control to God difficult, but all the feelings that come up when we don't get what we ask for the way that we want.
And so the second idea is that we wanna trust God's word over our feelings.
How do you trust God's word over your feelings?
Cause when you don't get your prayers answered, it produces some feelings in you.
Like God, I feel unseen, I feel unheard, I feel unloved.
And that makes me not know how to feel about you.
makes me wanna quit in my relationship with you.
Or I get that low grade sense of disappointment, that passive aggressive relationship with God.
I would never say it out loud.
I mean, I come to church, praise the Lord, speak the name of Jesus, how great thou art, all beautiful.
But inside, if you really are alone with your thoughts thinking about God, there's like this, I don't know.
Are you holding like a past sin against me?
Do you just not care about me like you care about everybody else?
Do you not care about my pain?
And that can lead us to quit on God.
It can lead us to act on our own.
Well fine, if you're not gonna give me a husband or wife, I'm gonna go out there and find one on my own.
I'm gonna do it my way.
If you're not gonna give me the job I wanted, the money I wanted, there's a way for me to make money, maybe not your way, but I can make it happen.
Sometimes when we're not careful or conscious of not getting our way in prayer, we just go and do our own thing.
And so I wanna share with you just the lessons that we see in God's Word.
When things did not go the way that many of these men and women who are just like us, well, the way we wanted them to go, how did they respond?
And one of those is a man named Joe.
One of the oldest books in the Bible about a man who goes through personal tragedy.
One of the most horrific tragedies you can imagine
A man who has it all, a man who's married, he has 10 kids, seven sons, three daughters, he is wealthy, he is respected, he is the man.
Everyone wants to be.
And then everything changes in a single day.
The seven sons and three daughters are killed in a tragic accident.
He loses his fortune, all that he's worked to accumulate his entire life.
And then he loses his health.
His friends begin to accuse him.
He must have done something wrong.
He must have sinned secretly against God.
His wife says, why don't you just curse God and die?
Now the man everyone wants to be is the man no one wants to be.
And that can happen that fast.
What is he gonna do?
And Job doesn't sit by passively.
He argues with God, he doubts, he rails, he talks to God and when you read the book of Job, you're like, can you talk to God like that?
And apparently you can because if God can read your mind, he knows you're thinking it, he might as well say it out loud.
Listen, you could say anything that you're feeling to God as long as your back has not turned him.
He wants to engage and so Job has to deal with this question.
Would I believe in God and trust in God and love in God despite my feelings, despite what everyone thinks and feels?
Could I believe and hold to God even if there's no reason to?
Oh, wow.
Because here's the accusation from the devil.
The only reason people believe in you is because you do good things for them, but take away their money, take away their health, mess up some relationships and they will curse you to your face.
And here's Job's response.
This is a yielding prayer.
As he's resting with where is God and why is this happening?
And God's answer, any of his questions, he makes a statement.
Even if God kills me, I will still put my hope in him.
Wow.
What kind of person says, even if,
He kills me.
I'll still hope in him and trust him.
It's a person whose relationship with God has been born over time and been tested.
It's a prayer of yielding.
I have no idea what God is doing in my life and I can't figure out any answers to the why, but my question is no longer why.
It is what now?
What do I do now that my life has turned out this way?
And he offers this yielding prayer even if he kills me.
And we see this prayer through the Bible.
I mean, there's these three guys in Babylon, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego.
And they're ordered to bow down to Nebuchadnezzar and his idol and they refuse.
So he pulls them out.
The only ones in the crowd who don't bow down, their life is on the line.
And he says, bow down.
And they say, I'm sorry, King, but we're not gonna bow down to you or your idol.
And here's what we want you to know, our God can deliver us and He will deliver us.
But then they make this yielding statement.
But even if He doesn't know this, we will never bow down.
Think about that.
People who go, we're gonna pray, God, you can save us, please save us, please deliver us.
But even if you don't, we're not gonna forsake our relationship with the living God.
because he's the only one we're bowing down to, right?
And this, this again is a yielding prayer.
God, you know what I want.
I've asked you clearly and boldly, repeatedly, and even if it doesn't work out like I want, and even if my feelings, they rise up, I will worship you even if.
And probably the most clear example of that in my life, too, I've seen is the story of a woman named Johnny Erickson Todd.
When she was 17 years old, she dove into a lake
And she hit something in the lake and she broke her neck and she was paralyzed from the shoulders down a quadriplegium.
This girl was beautiful and smart and full of faith and promise.
And you look at this young girl like, like, okay, God's certainly gonna heal someone like that.
And so for months and years, prayer meetings were held.
She was anointed with the oil.
Prayers of faith were prayed and God said, no.
And you're like, how does God say no to a 17 year old girl and a broken hearted family?
How does He allow her to be paralyzed?
He can heal her just like that.
And so she went through her depression, all her suicidal thoughts until she prayed this yielding prayer.
God, if I can't die, show me how to live.
Think about that prayer.
God, if I can die, if you're not gonna kill me,
Then show me how to live.
I can't use my hands or my legs.
I can't be that person.
And for 55 years, Johnny Erickson has followed Jesus.
And for 55 years, instead of asking why, she asks what now.
And her ministry, Johnny and friends, and her testimony, her story has affected tens of millions, hundreds of millions of people all over this planet.
And she realized through prayer and suffering, through the acceptance of God's will,
and not living in resentment to God allowed her to accept an outcome that she would not have chosen for herself.
Listen to me, yielding prayer is a person who's able to accept an outcome that they would not have chosen for themselves.
And that's where her impact has been multiplied.
Often we struggle with the outcome that God has brought into our lives and we just sort of go, I'm not gonna follow you if you're not gonna answer some basic prayers or not.
Or we come to church and we do sing and praise the Lord, but we still feel that.
No, there's this beautiful moment of acceptance.
God, give me the surrender to accept the things I cannot change.
You are the potter.
I am the clay.
So I submit all my feelings to God's word and I trust in the goodness of your redemption.
One of my favorite prayers in regard to this is a prayer
prayed by Oswald Chambers, a prayer of yielding.
If God has made your cup sweet, drink it with grace.
And if he's made it bitter, drink it in communion with him.
Some of you guys are having a really great week or a great month or so far or a great year.
And jobs are opening up and relationships are thriving and prayers are being answered and your cup is sweet, then drink
the sweetness of the cup that God's giving you in this moment with great joy and grace, knowing that these are all undeserved gifts of God.
Because God is so good to his people, right?
He's so good.
But the reality is there are some people in this room that are like, man, I know he's good and the Bible says he's good, but I don't feel it right now.
And in that moment, what do you do?
You drink the cup that God has given you as bitter as it is in fellowship with him.
Jesus drank that cup.
He understands that.
pain and disappointment.
He understands the sorrow of it.
He understands rejection and abandonment.
He knows what it's like to feel alone.
And so even when you're drinking a bitter cup, when you do it in relationship with him, well that begins to change everything.
And so we're gonna practice for a moment this prayer of yielding our feelings to God's words.
I'm gonna ask you to close your eyes again and just think with me in the presence of God as I ask you a few questions.
Is there an area of your life where your feelings have overpowered what God's word says?
A place where you've let fear be stronger than your faith or despair be stronger than your hope.
Maybe you might feel in the blank this way.
I feel like I wanna give up on God, or myself, or my marriage, or my church, or my calling.
Because I feel unfulfilled or unhappy.
I feel alone.
And just offer that to Jesus right now, offer it to him.
And just say, I surrender control.
Not my will, but your will be done.
You are the potter and I am the clay.
Amen.
Yielding is the hardest type of prayer.
And this is a continuous process, the offering of control, the taking your feelings in place in them under God's word and what you know is true with Him.
This is a continuous process that will happen for your entire life.
And in a moment we're gonna take communion, but I want us to practice this a little more because if this is a continuous process of yielding our lives to Him,
Well, as we pray our hearts for communion, I want you just to know like there's so many encouragements in God's word that help us walk this out as Christians.
And so here's the scripture that I want us to spend our final thoughts on before communion.
It's Romans 12.
Here's what Paul writes, therefore I urge you brothers and sisters in view of God's mercy to offer your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and pleasing to God.
This is your true and proper worship.
Do not conform to the pattern of this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind.
So what is Paul saying?
This is a yielding scripture and something we can pray every day.
He says, I wanna urge you brothers and sisters in view of God's mercy.
In other words, because of all that God has done for you in Christ, because Christ was in that garden and could have
gone his other way.
He could have said no, he could have done his own thing, but he yielded to the Father and the plan from the foundation of the world.
He died in your place and because of that death you are free and forgiven and whole and have the hope of heaven.
Can we just thank God for that?
That's just a beautiful thing in light of all that and all that he's done in your life.
Offer your bodies as a living sacrifice.
What does that mean?
So a sacrifice in the Old Testament was a bull or a ram that was killed.
It gave its life one time.
And Paul says, as a New Testament Christian, you're gonna continually give your life to him as a sacrifice.
Not once, but every single day.
Your body doesn't belong to you.
You were made in the image of God.
You were purchased by the death and resurrection of Jesus.
Your body belongs to God.
What you do with your body matters to God, right?
And then he says this.
So don't be conformed to the pattern of
this world.
Don't yield the way that you think or act in conformity to the world.
Another way to say Romans 12 too is don't become so well adjusted to your culture that you fit into it without even thinking.
And so let's think about, what does it mean to yield to God's way?
To yield to God's word and not what our culture says.
Because if you think about the way that people pray or that people talk today, they'll say something like this, like, I was thinking about what was inside of me, what I think and what I feel.
And I take all of that and then I offer to God and say, God, here's how I think I'm made.
Here's what I think my identity is.
Here's how I think I should live.
Here are my goals now.
Could you stamp them so I could live my life?
That's called expressive.
It's about me and what I think and what I feel and then I express it to the world and I accept you to accept me and I accept God to do that.
And that is not a way that we yield.
That's the culture we live in.
It says God yields to us.
People yield to our preferences and desires.
And so taking this posture of yielding prayer is not what I think or feel because otherwise that produces conversations like this.
Pastor, I was praying the other day and God told me he wanted me to be happy.
And so I'm divorcing my husband or wife.
And God gave me freedom to sue my brother or sister who's a Christian because I feel entitled to a settlement.
God told me I didn't have to forgive that person because they hurt me so deeply.
God told me that if I'm gonna stand up and fight as a Christian that I can use whatever language I want because this is war.
And you scratch your head and you're like, God didn't say that.
Because God doesn't contradict his own word.
God is very consistent.
And so we want to be people who go through this yielding process in the Bible as we yield our desires, our thoughts.
This idea is repentance.
We repent every day.
Our thoughts, our attitudes and our actions that don't line up with God's word.
We say, God, if it's between what I think or feel a desire and what you say, I yield to your word.
And then I take the next step and the Bible says, when you do that, you will be transformed by the renewing of your mind.
Your mind will begin to change over time and you'll become the person that God has called you to be.
And the benefit of that is, Paul says, and then you will know the good and acceptable will of God for your life.
Listen, listen church.
When you hear the word repent, often you think like, God's trying to kill my fun.
kill my joy.
But repentance is only you lining up your thinking with his thinking.
And if he knows you best and loves you most and gives you a command, there is joy and freedom and just a deep sense of peace in that plan that you'll never find in any other plan.
And so as people of God, we have to decide, do I yield my life, my body as a living sacrifice to God?
Not the culture, tell me what to think or feel, but to trust in him.
And so sometimes our response is God, I can't do that.
I don't know how to do that.
I don't have the strength to do that.
I want to talk about the process.
And then we're going to have a chance to examine our hearts.
So this is part of my journey.
So let's talk about speech.
Before I was a Christian, profanity just flowed out of my mouth.
It was just like a regular thing.
And then I became a Christian.
And I remember the first time I cursed after I became a Christian, I felt this sense of conviction like, that's not who I am anymore.
So I'd read, read words like, don't let any wholesome talk come out of your mouth.
Okay.
I'm a Christian now.
So I'm going to, I'm going to stop speaking that way.
I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to train myself to be God.
I'm going to, I'm going to stop it.
Here's what happened.
Stop, stop cursing out loud, but I just cursed in my head.
You know what I'm talking about, right?
And so I got it.
Okay.
the way I've been talking, I don't say that anymore.
I don't slander people like I used to slander them, but I might not say you're a loser, but I think you're a loser.
Come on, don't act like you never thought that, come on.
That person who drives 30 miles an hour and 60 miles an hour is done, you know what I'm talking about.
Lord, I wanna yield not just what I say, because you say, how does blessing and cursing come out of the same mouth?
It shouldn't.
I wanna yield my thought process, I wanna renew my mind, I don't wanna think these things, I wanna deeply love people around me,
and then you get challenged.
Ephesians 4, 29, every word that comes out of your mouth should benefit those who hear it.
Whoa.
That means I should be encouraging people, speaking to their life, sharing scripture with their life.
Now think about this.
You go from dropping F bombs in traffic, to thinking those things, to saying, God, I yield my mouth, I yield my thoughts, and now I yield this new action to you.
I repent every single day so that my words benefit people
Listen, you know how long that takes?
I'm still in route.
It takes a long time.
This is what it means to say, God, every day I want to yield what comes out of my mouth, may my words honor you, the meditation of my heart be pleasing in your sight.
This is what it means to yield to God in prayer every day to offer your body as a living sacrifice.
Let's talk about our sexuality.
Again, a very sensitive and tender topic for me.
You know, before I was a Christian, I was looking at pornography on a regular basis, almost a daily basis.
I was in sexual relationships with people who were not my spouse or husband or wife.
It was one of those like kind of moments in my life where I was just like living my life and I become a Christian.
And I look at it like God say, wait, don't offer your body in sexual immorality.
All right, Lord, I'm gonna repent.
I'm gonna change God to yield.
I still have this desire.
I still want to, but God, I'm gonna honor you because of what you've done for me.
And so now your behavior begins to change, but that doesn't mean your thought process doesn't change.
Doesn't mean you can't imagine all those things in your head.
Doesn't mean you can't take a second look and imagine.
God, I want to yield not just my actions.
God, I want to yield my thoughts to you.
God, I can't do this by myself.
I need your help.
Then, and now every person you look at,
For those men that are older, they're like fathers.
The women that are older like mothers.
The girls that are younger like sisters, younger brothers.
Treat people with respect and honor.
Don't objectify people for your own sexual gratification.
And now learn to speak and protect those who are vulnerable with all you've learned through the process.
God, I yield.
I yield from using people for my own pleasure to imagining things in my own mind that create this kind of own world too.
I'm now treating and defending and protecting and honoring people.
You know how long that takes?
It takes a lifetime.
I yield my thoughts, my actions, my life to God.
These are yielding prayers.
These are every single day prayers.
What about money?
The money, before I was a Christian, that money's mine.
And if I have to earn money in not such an ethical way, God doesn't really care.
If I don't get caught, no big deal.
I just, I want as much as I can, because the more I got, the safer I feel, the more respected I'll be, and this is mine.
And then you become a Christian.
So now I got to operate an integrity.
I'm not going to do anything that's not ethical or illegal or honorable to God.
I'm still accumulating stuff because the more I have, the better I am.
And then God changes.
God, I want to be a good steward.
And now you're asking me to give.
I was with you until that.
And you come up with all these excuses like, what are they going to do with the money?
And they don't really need it.
I need it more than they do.
But God, I yield.
Is this what you're asking me to give you my first and best?
Sometimes I feel like I can't, sometimes I feel like I won't or don't want to, but I yielded.
Now I want to begin to give and now I want to begin to give more and more generously and I want to not make it about me.
And I want to find freedom and joy and the fulfillment of God's calling in my life by the way that I give and the more that I get to serve and help other people.
How long does that take?
Your entire life you'll be continuing to grow from being a taker to being
This is what it means to yield your life to God.
As you wrestle in prayer, God, I want to be like your son, Jesus.
And so we're about to take part in communion and we're about to just acknowledge in light of what Jesus did for us because of his great mercy, we want to offer ourselves.
Gal, for everything you've done for me, there's nothing I wouldn't do for you.
You are the potter, I am the clay.
Your kingdom come, your will be done in me on earth as it is.
So if you don't have your communion elements, you can raise your hand and we'll provide them for you.
And if you're not a Christian, I wanna remind you, this is something that's not just a religious ritual or a way to check a box or get a blessing.
This is, if you're not a Christian, this is not for you.
It's for you to watch the people of God say, by this bread we remember the death of our savior Jesus.
By this cup we remember his blood shed for us.
but I want to offer you this invitation.
If you're not a Christian, but you're like, man, I want that.
I want the forgiveness of God.
I want a relationship with God.
I want to be in that moment.
I'll just invite you in your seat, where you are to yield, to repent, just to say, God, I opened my heart and I invite you inside.
Forgive my sins.
I want to follow you.
I give you control of my life.
And if you prayed that prayer and you meant it sincerely, well, then take communion with us.
because Jesus is looking for a heart and mind that is willing and ready to repent and believe the good news of the gospel.
And so with your community elements here in hand, we're just gonna ask you to close your eyes and just reflect on a few of these questions.
The Bible says when we prepare for communion, we should examine ourselves.
We should judge ourselves so we will not be judged by God.
that communion provides a mirror.
So just ask yourself in the presence of God, is there an area of your life that you need to yield to God?
And your thoughts, your attitudes, your behavior, maybe it's unforgiveness,
for a person or resentment for a whole group of people.
Maybe it's a critical spirit, an issue of control or self-righteousness.
Maybe you're ungrateful or joyless, just negative.
maybe impatient or unkind or just apathetic, unloving.
Just take a moment in the presence of God, just say, God, I repent, I yield.
Forgive me, give me fresh grace.
I'm just gonna give you a few more moments to spend time with Jesus and then we're gonna sing a song over you that God would send revival that as we all yield our hearts to Him
He would do his good work in us.
And in that time, I'm gonna ask you to take the bread and the cup all on your own.
And then we're gonna respond to the song of praise.
So take that time, just you and Jesus right now.
Can we give praise to our great God who is worthy of our praise?
As the people of God, as we yield our lives to him, we say, God, not our will, but your will be done.
You are the potter.
We are the clay.
Let us live this week with yielded lives.
Let's pray yielding prayers and watch him do above and beyond we can ask or imagine according to his
power that's at work within us.
Be blessed today.
Go in peace.
If you need prayer for any reason, all this altar is open and we will see you on Friday night.
God bless you.
Thanks for listening to today's message.
You know, here at Calvary, we believe a relationship with Jesus changes everything.
And if you've decided to follow Jesus, we'd love for you to text the word believe to 31352.
So you can find out what it means to follow Christ and to learn more about Calvary and all of our campuses.
You're free to visit CalvaryFTL.org.